# image-caption

Show and Tell: A Neural Image Caption Generator

A TensorFlow implementation of the image-to-text model described in the paper:

"Show and Tell: Lessons learned from the 2015 MSCOCO Image Captioning Challenge."

Oriol Vinyals, Alexander Toshev, Samy Bengio, Dumitru Erhan.

IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence (2016).

Full text available at: http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.06647

# download
https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B7k91FBdFbY7eVd1SHprQjdkWms
https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/im2txt

# Generating Captions
# Path to checkpoint file or a directory containing checkpoint files. Passing
# a directory will only work if there is also a file named 'checkpoint' which
# lists the available checkpoints in the directory. It will not work if you
# point to a directory with just a copy of a model checkpoint: in that case,
# you will need to pass the checkpoint path explicitly.
CHECKPOINT_PATH="${HOME}/im2txt/model/train"

# Vocabulary file generated by the preprocessing script.
VOCAB_FILE="${HOME}/im2txt/data/mscoco/word_counts.txt"

# JPEG image file to caption.
IMAGE_FILE="${HOME}/im2txt/data/mscoco/raw-data/val2014/COCO_val2014_000000224477.jpg"

# Build the inference binary.
bazel build -c opt im2txt/run_inference

# Ignore GPU devices (only necessary if your GPU is currently memory
# constrained, for example, by running the training script).
export CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=""

# Run inference to generate captions.
bazel-bin/im2txt/run_inference \
  --checkpoint_path=${CHECKPOINT_PATH} \
  --vocab_file=${VOCAB_FILE} \
  --input_files=${IMAGE_FILE}
  
  
  Example output:
  Captions for image 1.jpg:
  0) a cat laying on top of a grass covered field . (p=0.002806)
  1) a black and white cat laying on top of a grass covered field . (p=0.000498)
  2) a black and white cat laying on top of a green field . (p=0.000412)
